---
style: chapter
---

# 3. Terminology and conventions used in this standard

## 3.1 Terminology

### 3.1.1 Shall, should, may, can

See [1.3](01.html#13-word-usage) for the usage conventions regarding the words shall, should, may, and can.

### 3.1.2 Application, implementation

The word *application* is used to mean a C++ program, written by an end user, that uses the SystemC Configuration class library; that is,
uses classes, functions, or macros defined in this standard.

The word *implementation* is used to mean any specific implementation of the SystemC Configuration class library as defined in this
standard, only the public interface of which need be exposed to the *application*.

### 3.1.3 Call, called from, derived from

The term *call* is taken to mean *call* directly or indirectly. *Call* indirectly means *call* an intermediate function that in turn calls
the function in question, where the chain of function calls may be extended indefinitely.

Similarly, *called from* means called from directly or indirectly.

Except where explicitly qualified, the term *derived from* is taken to mean derived directly or indirectly from. Derived indirectly from
means derived from one or more intermediate base classes.

### 3.1.4 Specific technical terms

The specific technical terms as defined in IEEE Std 1666-2011 generally apply for the SystemC Configuration standard. The term
*interface* is an exception, used herein to indicate a generic software interface (or application programming interface) which does
not require inheritance from **`sc_interface`**.

In addition, the following technical terms are defined:

A *parameter* is a class *derived from* the class **`cci::cci_param_if`**.

A *broker* is a class *derived from* the class **`cci::cci_broker_if`**.

## 3.2 Syntactical conventions

### 3.2.1 Implementation-defined

The italicized term *implementation-defined* is used where part of a C++ definition is omitted from this standard. In such cases, an
*implementation* shall provide an appropriate definition that honors the semantics defined in this standard.

### 3.2.2 Ellipsis (...)

An ellipsis, which consists of three consecutive dots (...), is used to indicate that irrelevant or repetitive parts of a C++ code listing
or example have been omitted for brevity.

### 3.2.3 Class names

Class names italicized and annotated with a superscript dagger (†) *should not* be used explicitly within an *application*. Moreover, an
*application* shall not create an object of such a class. It is strongly recommended that the given class name be used in an
implementation. However, an implementation *may* substitute an alternative class name in place of every occurrence of a particular
daggered class name.

Only the class name is considered here. Whether any part of the definition of the class is *implementation-defined* is a separate
issue.

The class names are the following:
 - *`cci_value_cref`*<sup>*†*</sup>
 - *`cci_value_ref`*<sup>*†*</sup>
 - *`cci_value_list_cref`*<sup>*†*</sup>
 - *`cci_value_list_ref`*<sup>*†*</sup>
 - *`cci_value_map_cref`*<sup>*†*</sup>
 - *`*cci_value_map_ref`*<sup>*†*</sup>
 - *`cci_value_string_cref`*<sup>*†*</sup>
 - *`cci_value_string_ref`*<sup>*†*</sup>

Public typedefs are provided for these classes to avoid the need to refer to them directly.

### 3.2.4 Configuration, Control and Inspection (CCI) naming patterns

The CCI interoperability interfaces are denoted with the prefix **`cci_`** for classes, functions, global definitions and variables, and with the prefix **`CCI_`** for macros and enumeration values.

An *application* shall not make use of these prefixes when defining classes, functions, global definitions, global variables, macros, and
enumerations.

Class names ending in **`_if`**, such as **`cci_broker_if`** and **`cci_param_if`**, declare abstract C++ classes providing key interfaces which *must* be inherited and fully satisfied by every implementation of this standard.

## 3.3 Typographical conventions

The following typographical conventions are used in this standard:

 1. The *italic* font is used for cross references to terms defined in
    [3.1](#31-terminology), [3.2](#32-syntactical-conventions) and [Annex B](b.html).\\
    For example: “Each *parameter* is registered during construction with a single *broker*.”
 2. The **`bold constant-width`** (Courier) font is used for all reserved keywords of the SystemC Configuration standard as defined in
    namespaces, macros, constants, enum literals, classes, member functions, data members and types.\\
    For example: “Actual *parameters* are created as instances of **`cci_param_typed`**, which in concert with its base class **`cci_param_untyped`** implements the **`cci_param_if`** interface.”

 3. The `constant-width` font is used for all other code; primarily:
    - SystemC Configuration class definitions including member functions, data members and data types
    - SystemC Configuration examples when the exact usage is depicted.
    For example: “**`cci_param`**`<int> p("param", 17, "Demonstration parameter");`“

The conventions listed herein are for ease of reading only. Editorial inconsistencies in the use of typography are unintentional and have no normative meaning in this standard.

## 3.4 Semantic conventions

### 3.4.1 Class definitions and the inheritance hierarchy

An *implementation* may differ from this standard in that an *implementation* may introduce additional base classes, class members,
and friends to the classes defined in this standard. An *implementation* may modify the inheritance hierarchy by moving class
members defined by this standard into base classes not defined by this standard. Such additions and modifications may be made as necessary in order to implement the semantics defined by this standard or in order to introduce additional functionality not defined by this standard.

### 3.4.2 Function definitions and side-effects

This standard explicitly defines the semantics of the C++ functions in the SystemC Configuration class library. Such functions *shall not*
have any side-effects that would contradict the behavior explicitly mandated by this standard. In general, the reader should assume the
common-sense rule that if it is explicitly stated that a function *shall* perform action A, that function *shall not* perform any action
other than A, either directly or by calling another function defined in this standard. However, a function *should* perform any tasks
necessary for resource management, performance optimization, or to support any ancillary features of an *implementation*. As an example
of resource management, it is assumed that a destructor will perform any tasks necessary to release the resources allocated by the
corresponding constructor.

### 3.4.3 Exceptions

Other than destructors and **`swap`** (see [5.5.2.3](05.html#5523-swap-functions)) or as explicitly noted in documentation, API functions should be presumed to have the potential to throw exceptions, either as the `SC_THROW` action from the `sc_report_handler::report` diagnostic or an explicit throw. *Callback* functions are also permitted to throw. *Implementations shall* ensure that class invariants are preserved in the case of exceptions from all sources. The utility function **`cci_handle_exception`** decodes CCI library exceptions using **`cci_param_failure`** enum values as described in [5.8](05.html#58-error-reporting).

### 3.4.4 Functions whose return type is a reference or a pointer

An object returned from a function by pointer or by reference is said to be valid during any period in which the object is not deleted and
the value or behavior of the object remains accessible to the *application*. If an *application* refers to the returned object after
it ceases to be valid, the behavior of the *implementation shall* be undefined.

### 3.4.5 Functions that return \*this or a pass-by-reference argument

In certain cases, the object returned is either an object `(*this)` returned by reference from its own member function (for example, the
assignment operators), or it is an object that was passed by reference as an argument to the function being *called*. In either case, the
function *call* itself places no additional obligations on the *implementation* concerning the lifetime and validity of the object
following return from the function *call*.

### 3.4.6 Functions that return const char\*

Certain functions have the return type **`const char*`** indicating they return a pointer to a null-terminated character string. Such
strings *shall* remain valid until returning from sc_main.

### 3.4.7 Non-compliant applications and errors

In the case where an *application* fails to meet an obligation imposed by this standard, the behavior of the implementation *shall* be
undefined in general. When this results in the violation of a diagnosable rule of the C++ standard, the C++ *implementation* will
issue a diagnostic message in conformance with the C++ standard.

When this standard explicitly states that the failure of an *application* to meet a specific obligation is an *error* or a
*warning*, the *implementation shall* generate a diagnostic message by calling an appropriate function in **`cci_report_handler`**; for
common CCI error types the specific diagnostics such as **`set_param_failed`**, and for other errors or warnings
`sc_report_handler::report`. In the case of an *error*, the *implementation shall call* report with a severity of `SC_ERROR`. In
the case of a *warning*, the *implementation shall call* report with a severity of `SC_WARNING`. See [5.8](05.html#58-error-reporting) for details of **`cci_report_handler`**.

An *implementation* or an *application* may choose to suppress run-time error checking and diagnostic messages because of
considerations of efficiency or practicality. For example, an *application* may *call* member function set_actions of class
sc_report_handler to take no action for certain categories of report. An *application* that fails to meet the obligations imposed by
this standard remains in error.

There are cases where this standard states explicitly that a certain behavior or result is *undefined*. This standard places no obligations on the *implementation* in such a circumstance. In particular, such a circumstance may or may not result in an *error* or a *warning*.

### 3.4.8 Notes and examples

Notes appear at the end of certain subclauses, designated by the uppercase word NOTE. Notes often describe the consequences of rules
defined elsewhere in this standard. Certain subclauses include examples consisting of fragments of C++ source code. Such notes and
examples are informative to help the reader but are not an official part of this standard.
