---
style: chapter
---

# 4. CCI architecture overview
{:.page-break-before}

The core of the SystemC Configuration standard is the pairing of *parameters* and *brokers*, where a *parameter* is a named instance of
a specific compile-time type and a *broker* aggregates *parameters* and provides access to them in the form of *handles*. *Brokers* and
*parameters* are both generally accessed via *handles* which, among other things, identify the source (“*originator*”) of new *parameter
value* assignments. Originator identification is commonly contextual and managed implicitly.

Each *parameter* is registered during construction with a single *broker*. *Parameters* are typically constructed and owned by a
SystemC module, with other users subsequently obtaining a *handle* from the *broker*. The owner constructs a *parameter* with a *default
value*, however the *broker can* override this with a *preset value*, allowing tools to provide runtime configurations.

Typically a *global broker* will exist, created early in the elaboration phase. Modules may supply their own *local brokers*, for
example to keep their *parameters* private. In such a case, a hierarchy of *brokers* mirrors the hierarchy of `sc_module`s.

[Figure 1](#figure-1) shows a typical sequence of a *parameter* being constructed and used:
 1. A tool obtains a *broker handle* (**`cci_broker_handle`**, not explicitly shown) and specifies a *preset value* for the named
    *parameter* (**`cci_param`**); this *should* be completed prior to construction of the owning module.
 2. The module owning the *parameter* instantiates it with a *default value*.
 3. The *parameter* registers with the *broker* (**`cci_broker_if`**) and acquires the *preset value*, supplanting the default.
 4. A user gets a *handle* for the *parameter* (**`cci_param_handle`**) and through it gets the current (i.e. *preset*) *value*.

{% include figure
   reference="Figure 1"
   caption="Key interactions for parameter construction and access"
   alt-text=""
   class="fixed"
   images="figure1.png"
%}

It is useful to consider several perspectives when overviewing the more complete set of SystemC Configuration standard features:
 - Tools\\
   Tools access *brokers* and *parameters* via *handles* and facilitate *parameter* interaction. A variant type is provided for exchanging*parameter values* in a highly portable manner referred to as “*untyped access*” as depicted in [Figure 1](#figure-1). Tools will also expose *parameter* attributes provided at construction (see *Parameter creation and direct access* below) as well as the origin of the current *value* and any metadata. Tools may utilize *broker callbacks* and *parameter callbacks* to report or respond to interesting events.
 - *Parameter* creation and direct access\\
   Modules containing *parameters* will specify their compile-time type, description, and *default value*. They *may* provide additional metadata for the benefit of tools, users, and possibly other code. They *can* use *parameter callbacks* for reacting to *parameter* accesses. Ownership affords interacting with *parameters* directly, without *handles*.
 - *Parameter* lookup and access via a *handle*\\
   SystemC code outside of the owning module will request a *broker handle* and in turn perform a name based lookup to obtain a *parameter handle*. With a few exceptions, such as inability to reset the parameter or override the *parameter*’s description and metadata, the *handle* provides an interface equivalent to the *parameter* itself. A testbench is one example of this perspective.
 - (Sub-)System packaging and integration\\
   Local *brokers* are introduced at the time of packaging and/or integration to impose policies such as *parameter* hiding.
 - Infrastructure\\
   Developers of modeling infrastructure will be concerned with enabling user-defined *parameter value* types and adapting legacy *parameter* implementations for conformance with the standard.
