---
title: "18. Notes, footnotes, examples, warnings, and cautions"
---

# Notes, footnotes, examples, warnings, and cautions

## Notes

The *IEEE SA Standards Board Operations Manual*, [6.4](), states that notes are informative. Notes are explanatory statements used in the text for emphasis or to offer informative suggestions about the technical content of the standard. Notes provide additional information to assist the reader with a particular passage and shall not include mandatory requirements. Because a note in the text is an informative part of the approved standard, important information on safety, health, or the environment shall not be included. A note should follow that paragraph to which it belongs, and shall be set apart from the text by introducing the statement with the capitalized word “NOTE—.” Within each subclause, notes should be numbered sequentially, i.e., “NOTE 1—”, “NOTE 2—”, etc. The one exception is when notes appear in the definitions clause. Notes in the definitions clause should only be numbered if there are multiple notes that apply to a single definition. That is, each definition is treated as if it were its own subclause.

“Note that” is normative and is translated to mean “pay special attention to.” “Note that” is usually part of a paragraph while “NOTE—” is set apart as its own paragraph.

## Footnotes

The **IEEE SA Standards Board Operations Manual**, [6.4]() states that footnotes are informative. Footnotes in text may be included in a standard only for information, clarification, and/or aid applicable to the use of the standard. Mandatory requirements shall not be included in text footnotes Note that footnotes to tables and figures follow different rules (see [16.4]() and [17.3]()) and may contain normative information.

Footnotes in the frontmatter, body, and annexes should be numbered consecutively using Arabic numerals. When there are footnotes within tables and figures, they should be lettered. If a footnote is cited more than once, each additional citation should refer back to its first mention as follows:

2 See Footnote 1.

## Examples

Examples may be used as illustrations to foster understanding of the standard. Examples are not a normative part of the standard; therefore, requirements shall not be included in the text of the example. (See [10.2]() and [19.2]() for illustrations of examples.)

## Warnings and cautions

*Warnings* call attention to the use of materials, processes, methods, procedures, or limits that have to be followed precisely to avoid injury or death.

*Cautions* call attention to methods and procedures that have to be followed to avoid damage to equipment. A warning is more important than a caution. If both are to be included in the same clause or subclause, the warning shall precede the caution.

Warnings and cautions should start with a clear instruction, followed with a short explanation (if necessary). If the warning or caution is of a general nature (and is applicable throughout the text), it should be placed at the start of the text. This avoids the necessity of repeating the same warning or caution frequently throughout the text. Warnings and cautions shall not be placed in informative text or notes.

WARNING
Serious injury may result if the following parameters are not followed exactly.
