---
title: "19. Bibliography"
---

# 19. Bibliography

## 19.1 General

The bibliography shall always be an informative lettered annex that appears as either the first or last annex of the standard. See Annex B for an example.

If bibliographic items are cited in text, tables, figures, or notes, the citation should be placed at the point where reference is made to them. If the item is a standard, the designation (e.g., IEEE Std 1226.6-1996) and bibliographic reference number (e.g., [B4]) should be cited. If the reference is to an article, book, or other type of publication included in the bibliography, the title or author of the publication and the bibliographic reference number should be cited.

The bibliography should be ordered alphanumerically, without respect to the type of publication being cited.

## 19.2 Citing standards in a bibliography
{:#19-2}

Standards listed shall include designation and title. They can be either dated or undated, whichever is appropriate to a particular entry.

*Example:*

\[B1] ASME BPVC-I-2004, Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, Section 1—Power Boilers.

\[B2] Code of Federal Regulations Title 29 Part 1210 Section 354 (29CFR1210.354), Health and Safety Standards—Head injury.

\[B3] ISO/IEC 7498-4, Information processing systems—Open Systems Interconnection—Basic Reference Model—Part 4: Management framework.

## 19.3 Articles in periodicals

Consult *The Chicago Manual of Style*, current edition, for detailed information on how to list periodicals.

Articles listed shall include the following information in the order shown:

1. Last name of author or authors and first name or initials, or name of organization
2. Title of article in quotation marks
3. Title of periodical in full and set in italics
4. Volume, number, and, if available, part
5. First and last pages of article
6. Date of issue

*Example:*

\[B1] Boggs, S. A., and N. Fujimoto, “Techniques and instrumentation for measurement of transients in gas-insulated switchgear,” *IEEE Transactions on Electrical Installation*, vol. ET-19, no. 2, pp. 87–92, Apr. 1984.

## 19.4 Books

Consult the current *The Chicago Manual of Style* for detailed information on how to list books.

Books listed shall include the following information in the order shown:

1. Last name of author or authors and first name or initials, or name of organization. Note that for a book with two or more authors, only the first-listed name is inverted in the bibliography entry.
2. Title of book (in italics)
3. Edition number (if applicable)
4. Place of publication (city)
5. Name of publisher
6. Year of publication
7. First and last page of reference

*Example:*

\[B26] Peck, R. B., W. E. Hanson, and T. H. Thornburn, *Foundation Engineering*, 2nd ed. New York: McGraw-Hill, 1972, pp. 230–292.

### 19.4.1 Other types of bibliographies

For instructions on citing sources other than those listed in this subclause, refer to the current edition of *The Chicago Manual of Style*.

### 19.4.2 Annotated bibliography

\[B10] Henry, S., and Selig, C., “Predicting source-code complexity at the design stage,” *IEEE Software*, vol. 7, no. 2, pp. 36–44, Mar. 1990.

> *This paper states that the use of design metrics allows for determination of the quality of source code by evaluating design specifications before coding, causing a shortened development life cycle.*

### 19.4.3 Articles in corporate reports

\[B6] Dale, S. J., “Performance of a technical and economic feasibility study of an HVDC compressed gas- insulated transmission line,” Westinghouse Electric Corporation, Trafford, PA, Final Report, Dec. 1983.

### 19.4.4 Articles presented at conferences

\[B3] Cookson, A. H., and B. O. Pedersen, “Thermal measurements in a 1200 kV compressed gas insulated transmission line,” *Seventh IEEE Power Engineering Society Transmission and Distribution Conference and Exposition*, Atlanta, GA, pp. 163–167, Apr. 1979.

### 19.4.5 Government publications

\[B2] Cookson, A. H., “Particle Trap for Compressed Gas Insulated Transmission Systems,” U.S. Patent no. 4554399, Nov.1985.

\[B3] EPRI EL-2040, *Project 1352-1, Probability-Based Design of Wood Transmission Structures—Volume 3: User’s Manual, POLEDA-80—POLE Design and Analysis*, Final Report, Goodman, J., Vanderbilt, M., Criswell, M., and Bodig, J.

### 19.4.6 Uniform resource locators (URLs)

For articles or sources that were consulted online, the URL should be listed along with the source’s title and date accessed to create a more stable reference.

*Example:*

\[B18] Moore, James W., *IEEE/EIA 12207 as the Foundation for Enterprise Software Processes*, 2nd ed. Virginia: The MITRE Corporation, accessed October 14, 2012, [http://www.techwell.com/sites/default/files/articles/XML0181_0.PDF](http://www.techwell.com/sites/default/files/articles/XML0181_0.PDF).

### 19.4.7 Theses, dissertations, and other unpublished works

\[B5] Diessner, A., “Studies on Compressed Gas Insulation.” Master’s thesis, Stanford University, 1969.

\[B6] Hazel, R. L., “DC Breakdown and Anode Corona Characteristics of Sphere and Rod-Plane Gaps Insulated with Compressed Sulphur Hexa Fluoride.” Ph.D. diss., University of Windsor, 1974.

### 19.4.8 Open Source informative references

Informative references to Open Source software shall be listed in the bibliography. The requirements of item e) in [12.3.1](12.html#12-3-1) do not apply to informative references; however, the Working Group should consider the source, stability, maintenance, and security of the Open Source that is informatively referenced.

