---
style: chapter document-title-page
---

{% include metadata %}

{{ title }}
{:.title}

# 1. Overview

## 1.1 Purpose

This style guide defines the recommended structure, formatting and style to develop and deploy Accellera (Draft) Standards, User Guides and other standard-related documentation.

This style guide is intended for Accellera working group members which are assigned as technical editor to author standard-related documentation. Technical editors are encouraged to contact the Accellera Technical Committee chair for additional guidance and support when developing a standard-related document. In the case of changes or deviations to the recommended formatting and style as defined in this guide, it is required to contact the Technical Committee chair for approval. Please note that deviations to the formatting and style may result in a delayed approval of the Accellera (draft) standard, or even difficulties to transfer an Accellera standard to the IEEE Standardization Association. As such

This style guide is not addressing the policies and procedures for the development of Accellera standards. For that, please consult the [Accellera Policies & Procedures](https://www.accellera.org/images/about/policies/Policies_and_Procedures_2021.pdf) which can be found at the [Accellera](https://www.accellera.org/about/policies-and-procedures) website.

## 1.2 Helpful resources

The following documents are helpful resources for writing an Accellera standard-related document.

[IEEE SA Standards Style Manual](https://mentor.ieee.org/myproject/Public/mytools/draft/styleman.pdf)

[Electric Book documentation](https://electricbookworks.github.io/electric-book/docs/)

[Kramdown Quick Reference](https://kramdown.gettalong.org/quickref.html)

## 1.3 Using the Accellera documentation flow

It is strongly recommended to use the Accellera documentation flow to develop Accellera standard documents. When using this flow, the required Accellera and/or IEEE formatting and styles are automatically applied as part of the PDF rendering flow.

The documentation flow uses an Accellera-owned GitHub private account to store document sources. Each standard document will be stored in a separate repository under this GitHub account. Accellera working groups should contact the Technical Committee chair to request creation of such documentation repository.

Each documentation repository contains the required installation scripts and automation to create, author and render documents. Technical editors should have access to a Linux machine with administrator (root) access to be able to install the required tool packages and scripts. It is recommended to create a Linux virtual machine (e.g., VirtualBox) for this activity. More information can be found in [Annex A](a.html).

Please contact the Technical Committee chair in case of questions on the Accellera documentation flow, the required installation procedure or use of the standard document templates.
