---
style: chapter
---

# 4. Document structure and style
{:.page-break-before}

This chapter explains the document structure and style to be compliant with the IEEE SA Standards Style Manual.

## 4.1 Frontmatter

The frontmatter of an Accellera standard is considered informative, which means it is not officially part of the standard. The frontmatter of a standard includes pages in the following order:

1. Cover page
2. Title page
3. Abstract page
4. Notice page
5. Participants page
6. Table of contents

All pages except the cover page are mandatory. The page numbers of the abstract, notice and participants page shall use Western Arabic numerals (1, 2, 3, etc.). The cover and title page shall not have page numbers.

### 4.1.1 Front cover page

The front cover page is optional for Accellera standard documents. It often shows the identity of the standards developing organization using a graphical representation. It also includes the name of the standard, its version, and the working group who developed the standard. The cover page is the first element in the PDF bookmarks.

### 4.1.2 Title page

The title page is mandatory and contains the following information:

- Accellera logo
- Title and version of the Accellera standard
- Date when the standard is released

Draft standards for public review shall contain the label **Draft** at the title page. The title page is the second element in the PDF bookmarks.

### 4.1.3 Abstract page

The abstract page is mandatory and contains the following information:

- Abstract section
- Keywords section
- Acknowledgments section (if applicable)
- Copyright statement

The abstract paragraph gives a short explanation of the standard written in the passive voice and should be no longer than 15 lines. It is followed by a paragraph listing the key terms and phrases from the text of the standard, and should at least specify the name or abbreviation of the standard. The keywords should match the keywords as defined in the PDF properties. 

If applicable, an acknowledgments section can be added to recognize specific contributions of individuals or organizations. In case an introduction section is given, it is recommended to add the acknowledgments section on the introduction page (see [4.1.4](#414-introduction-page)). 

At the bottom of the page, a copyright statement shall be added which lists the name of the organization owning the copyright of the standard document.

The abstract page is *not* part of the PDF bookmarks.

### 4.1.4 Introduction page

The introduction page is optional for Accellera standards and considered informative. It may be added to the standard to explain the context and history of the standard. In case the standard is integral part of family of associated standards, the relation to the other standards should be explained. The introduction page is included in the PDF bookmarks.

In case an introduction section is added to the standard, it is mandatory to add a box at the start of the introduction with following text:

| This introduction is informative and not part of the [draft] [name] standard

where [draft] is optional in case the standard is in draft stage, e.g., for public review. The [name] or of the standard may be added as well. 

The introduction page may contain an acknowledgments section (see [4.1.3](#413-abstract-page)).

### 4.1.5 Notice page

The notice page is mandatory and briefly explains the context and governance of the standards developing organization to how the standard should be interpreted and used. It also contains the address of the standards developing organization, in the form of email, postal or web address, to encourage receiving suggestions and feedback. The notice page is included in the PDF bookmarks.

### 4.1.6 Participants page

The participants page is mandatory and lists the the officers and members of the working group that developed the standard. It is recommended to list the full first names and not the initials. Titles (e.g., Dr., Ms., P.E.) should not be included as part of the full name.
The list of eligible voting member organizations is added to the participants page, and based on the working group participation and contribution to the ballot. The participants page is included in the PDF bookmarks.

### 4.1.7 Table of contents

The table of contents is mandatory and lists the first-level clauses (one digit notation) and nested second-level subclauses (two digit notation). Lower level clauses are optional and the working group may decide to use subclauses down to the 6th level.

The implementation of the table of contents is stored in the file `_data/works/standard/default.yml`. The table of contents is added to the document at the location of tag {% raw %}`{% include toc %}`{% endraw %} The title of this section is called **Contents** included in the PDF bookmarks. 

Lists of tables and figures are not required in the table of contents. For lengthy documents however, inclusion of a lists of tables and figures is recommended.

## 4.2 Document body

The body of document contains the normative text of the standard, unless otherwise stated. The document body shall at least contain the following ordered clauses:

> 1&#46; Overview

> 2&#46; Normative references

> 3&#46; Definitions, acronyms, and abbreviations

### 4.2.1 Overview

The overview clause is mandatory and shall at least contain the following ordered subclauses:

> 1&#46;1 Scope

> 1&#46;2 Purpose

> 1&#46;3 Word usage

The scope of the standard explains what is covered in the standard and, if necessary, what is not covered in the standard. The purpose explains why the standard is needed. Although the purpose subclause is not mandatory for IEEE-SA standards, it is considered important for Accellera standards and therefore recommended to include. The Word usage clause defines the usage of the words *shall*, *should*, and *may* in the standard.

The overview clause may include additional subclauses that the working group considers relevant. The overview shall not contain any detailed technical description of the standard, as this shall be described in separate clauses (from Clause 4 onwards). Furthermore, the overview shall not list the contents of the standard, for this a table of contents is included.

### 4.2.2 Normative references

Clause 2 in a standard document shall list the normative references. Normative references are references to other standard documents which shall be followed or applied as part of the standard definition and usage. The clause shall not contain references to material which is considered informative. For this, an informative bibliography clause could be included.

### 4.2.3 Definitions, acronyms, and abbreviations

Clause 3 in a standard document shall list the definitions, acronyms, and abbreviations used in the standard. The following subclauses shall be defined:

> 3&#46;1 Definitions

> 3&#46;2 Acronyms and abbreviations

The definitions subclause lists all definitions used in the standard. Each definition should contain a concise, self-contained description of the term and shall not contain any other information, such as requirements or elaborative text. The term should not be used in its own definition. A definition may reference to other definitions.

Acronyms and abbreviations are listed in alphanumeric order. Each acronym and abbreviation is followed by the full term. Within text, the acronym or abbreviation should follow the first use of the full term (the first time in the introduction, then the first time in the body of the document, and then the first time in any annexes in which the acronym appears). The abbreviation or acronym should be placed in parentheses when following the full term. 

### 4.2.4 Numbering clauses and subclauses

All clause and subclause headings should consist of a number and a concise, meaningful, title. The numbering shall use Western Arabic numerals in sequence. The number of a clause (first-level) shall contain a number followed by a decimal point. A second-level subclause should be numbered by adding a number to the clause number (e.g., 5.1). For third-level subclauses and below, an additional decimal point and number is added (e.g., 5.1.1). Note that subclauses do not have a trailing period, only clause headings have this.

## 4.3 Backmatter

The backmatter of a standard includes pages in the following order:

1. Annexes
2. Index
3. Back cover

### 4.3.1 Annexes

The use of annexes is optional but recommended. Often bibliography or glossary is added to the standard.

#### 4.3.1.1 Ordering annexes

Annex headings shall use alphabet characters in uppercase (e.g. Annex A, Annex B, etc.) and shall *not* contain the title in the same line and shall not end with a period character. Instead, the following line should indicate whether the annex is normative or informative, by explicitly stating this in between parentheses, e.g. (normative) and (informative) respectively. The title of the annex follows next. The order of normative and informative annexes is not prescribed and therefore can be intermixed.

In the table of contents and PDF bookmarks, the annex header, normative or informative statement (in between parentheses) and title shall be captured in a single line.

The bibliography should be defined as annex, and is either the first or last annex of the standard. If a glossary exists, it should either be the last annex, or it should immediately precede the bibliography (if the bibliography is the last annex).

#### 4.3.1.2 Normative and Informative annexes

A standard may contain one or more normative and informative annexes. Normative annexes are required for implementation of the standard. Informative annexes are not part of the standard, and considered for information only.

#### 4.3.1.3 Bibliography, glossary

The inclusion of a bibliography amd glossary is optional. A bibliography or glossary shall be the title of the annex, and not replace the annex heading. Both bibliography amd glossary shall be labelled informative. When a bibliography is implemented, it shall be either the first or last annex of the standard. If a glossary is implemented, it should be either be the last annex, or it should immediately precede the bibliography (if the bibliography is the last annex).

### 4.3.2 Index

The inclusion of an index is optional. An index is the before-last section in the document, followed by the back cover. The index contains a list of most relevant keywords defined in the standard, and each keyword is reference by a page number. Preferably, each reference to a page is a hyperlink to the actual section where the keyword is defined. The number of references for each keyword or shall be limited to one or two.

### 4.3.3 Back cover

The back cover page is optional for Accellera standard documents. It often shows the identity of the standards developing organization using a graphical representation. A back cover might be empty. The back cover is the last element in the PDF bookmarks.

### 4.3.4 Headers and footers

A standard document shall only show a header and footer text in the body and in the annexes.

The header text shall contain the name of the standard and its version. The date should not be part of the header text.

A footer text shall contain the page number on the first line and an Accellera copyright statement on the second line. The copyright statement shall mention the year and copyright owner, as shown below: 

> Copyright &copy; &lt;year&gt; Accellera. All rights reserved.
