---
title: "5. Copyright and permissions"
---

# Copyright and permissions

## General copyright policy

Contributions by standards participants to IEEE standards projects are subject to the IEEE SA copyright policy found in Clause [7](http://standards.ieee.org/develop/policies/bylaws/sect6-7.html#7) of the *IEEE SA Standards Board Bylaws* and [6.1](http://standards.ieee.org/develop/policies/opman/sect6.html) of the *IEEE SA Standards Board Operations Manual*.

Go to [http://standards.ieee.org/ipr/copyright.html](http://standards.ieee.org/ipr/copyright.html) for additional information and FAQs on IEEE SA copyright policy.

## Excerpting material published by other organizations

Any participant who submits contributions from previously published sources shall comply with [7.2.1](http://standards.ieee.org/develop/policies/bylaws/sect6-7.html#7) of the *IEEE SA Standards Board Bylaws*.

Standards developers are encouraged to request permission from copyright owners as soon as the decision is made to include copyrighted material in a draft. Standards developers should initiate the permission-seeking process prior to the IEEE SA ballot. Permission letters shall be submitted to IEEE SA staff, along with the draft, as part of Mandatory Editorial Coordination (MEC) review. If the copyright material is added to the draft during the IEEE SA ballot, receipt of permission letters shall be required before the draft can be recirculated to the IEEE SA ballot group.

Note that permission letters will be reviewed by IEEE SA staff at the time they are submitted for MEC review and again when the draft is submitted to the IEEE SA Standards Board for approval. If there are difficulties with obtaining permission responses, the working group should consider citing the information normatively rather than including an excerpt.

It is preferred that the IEEE permission form letters are used when seeking permission (see [https://standards.ieee.org/ipr/index.html](https://standards.ieee.org/ipr/index.html)). IEEE requests the following:

> [N]on-exclusive, irrevocable, royalty-free permission to use this material is granted to IEEE for world rights distribution, with permission to modify and reprint in all future revisions and editions of the resulting draft and approved IEEE standard, and in derivative works based on the standard, in all media known or hereinafter known.

In addition, no limitations on the right of IEEE to determine appropriate business arrangements for its standards shall be included as a stipulation for use of material. Contact the IEEE SA at [stds-copyright@ieee.org](mailto:stds-copyright@ieee.org), with any questions regarding material that might not meet the requirement.

The following credit line shall be used if specific language from the copyright holder is not available:

\<Material\> reprinted with permission from \<copyright owner\>, \<title of work from which material is excerpted\>, © \<copyright year\>.

The standards committee is responsible for alerting the IEEE SA, [stds-copyright@ieee.org](mailto:stds-copyright@ieee.org), in instances where legal agreements or licenses are required. This includes the adoption of independently developed documents as potential IEEE standards. Working groups shall not negotiate agreements with outside entities with regard to IEEE standards. Please contact the IEEE SA, [stds-copyright@ieee.org](mailto:stds-copyright@ieee.org), with any questions about licensing agreements, copyright, and permission.
